Now let's understand the console object in this lecture.
The question is explain different console object methods.
First, let us understand what exactly is the control object.
The console object provides access to the developer tool debugger console from inside the code.
Cancel is part of global window object so you can ride windowed out console or you can directly see
console because it's part of global objects or directly available.
In the cord here on this button, click.
I will show you different console object methods.
There are various console object methods among which we have already seen a commonly used console dart
log method, which is basically used to print logs in the developer tool console.
Let me click on the button and the log is displayed.
Let me define a variable here.
See the is equal to document or get element by ID as three dot inner HDMI and let's say console log.
Let's save the file and run it.
So the console.log method prints the log messages in the console and used to evaluate and inspect the
variable values in the program.
Another method is cancelled out info which outputs the informative log messages to the console.
Unlike the console log method for example, instead of log, if I say console dot info and remove this
dot inner HDMI, let's save this and run.
So it displays the HTML tag with its content and information related to attributes.
Let me add one more button here and change this to button.
I'm changing this to get elements by tag name and here I say button.
And now let's save this and let's click on the button.
So as you see that the information related to the elements is displayed.
There is one more method that is used to display core data in a tabular format in the console, and
that can be done using console dock table.
So I have a string at a having few values and displayed this added data saying cancel the table and
I give SDR in the browser.
Let me dog the developer tool to bottom first and click on the button.
The first is the index of the added element field and other shows their values along with the added
length below.
If you click on the filenames, it sorts in ascending or descending orders.
This console can be used to write JavaScript directly for testing purposes.
I can write this code here as well.
Now let me press enter and I'm going to inspect the result.
When you want to provide any custom bonding, for example, I will use console dot one and here I give
the warning message.
It displays a warning in the console.
As my console has too many outputs, I want to clear it.
So I will use the console to clear matter directly in the console and press enter.
This will clear the console with a message that says console was clear.
Now this you can use when you want to make sure that before you console log anything you want to have
a clear console.
So this can be a very handy method to use now to display any error message in the console.
The console lot error method is used.
Just as here I used the true statement.
Let me change it to cancel out add.
This will not work as an exception anymore, but simply provide the error message that saved the file.
And let me do only one value and click on add.
So the error message is displayed here.
This sidebar shows different log messages like error message, user message and warning, etc..
To debug any function or code snippet.
There is a method called console or debug.
I will create one more button on click event will call the function named function debug.
Under the script tag.
I will call the function and c console dot debug and will debug this function.
And let me change this two elements.
Save the file and let's click on the button so it debug.
The function and error message is displayed.